Chez Scheme(tm) Version 6.9c
Petite Chez Scheme(tm) Version 6.9c

Copyright (c) 1985-2003 Cadence Research Systems
All Rights Reserved.

This file describes the files and subdirectories found in this directory,
lists the machine types supported by this release, and contains
instructions for building, installing, and customizing the system.
 
FILES AND SUBDIRECTORIES:

  Notice          copyright notice
  ReadMe          this file
  scheme.lic      standard license for Chez Scheme
  petite.lic      standard license for Petite Chez Scheme
  scheme.1        manual page (for Unix-based systems)
  bin             directory containing executable files
  boot            directory containing boot images
  custom          directory containing customization files
  examples        directory containing example Scheme programs


MACHINE TYPES SUPPORTED BY THIS RELEASE:

  alpha           Alpha AXP OSF/1 3.X, 4.X
  i3le            Intel 80x86 Linux 2.0.X
  i3nt            Intel 80x86 Windows NT 4/Windows 95
  pax             HP PA-RISC 700 series HPUX 10.X
  sps2            Sun-4/Sparc Solaris 2.X
  xgi             Silicon Graphics IRIX 6.X
  n32sgi          Silicon Graphics IRIX 6.X with N32 support

BUILDING INSTRUCTIONS (Unix):

  Building and installation require no more than  a few minutes once
  the contents of the distribution tape have been unloaded onto disk.

  Base executables, heap files, and executable shell scripts are
  included with the distribution.  We suggest, however, that you
  rebuild these files with your local libraries as this sometimes
  eliminates minor incompatibilities between operating system
  versions.  Please be careful, however, to retain backups of the
  original files shipped with the distribution.

  Executable and heap files may be built in the "custom" subdirectory.
  To build the executable for a particular machine type, type "make
  m=<machine-type>".  For example, for Sparc Solaris 2.X type

    % cd custom
    % make m=sps2

  The resulting base executable, heap files, and executable shell scripts
  are placed in the custom subdirectory.  You may wish to copy them to
  the bin subdirectory.

  Test Chez Scheme by typing "./scheme" and Petite Chez Scheme by typing
  "./petite" in the custom directory.  A greeting and copyright notice
  and a single right angle-bracket (">") prompt should appear.


AUTOMATIC INSTALLATION (Unix):

  The make files in the custom directory may be used to rebuild and
  install Chez Scheme and Petite Chez Scheme, the example programs,
  and the manual page.  Brief instructions for doing so are given here.
  Instructions for manual installation are given later in this file.

  First edit custom/Mf-install if necessary to reflect the proper
  location of the various files on your system.

  Next edit scheme.1 if necessary to reflect the location of the
  executable shell scripts and library directory.

  To perform the installation (you may need to be logged on as root to
  do this step), type "make m=<machine-type> install" in the custom
  subdirectory.  If you have not rebuilt the executable and heap files
  (see BUILDING INSTRUCTIONS above) they are built now.  For example,
  to (build and) install the system on a Sparc running Solaris 2.X,
  type:

    % cd custom
    % make m=sps2 install

  This will install both Petite Chez Scheme and (if present) Chez
  Scheme.

  Before installing Chez Scheme and/or Petite Chez Scheme, first read
  through scheme.lic and/or petite.lic.  The automatic installation
  process gives you an opportunity to do so and to abort the installation
  if you do not agree to the terms of the agreement.

  Check to make sure that proper installation has taken place and that
  the executable and man pages work as expected.


MANUAL INSTALLATION (Unix):

  Before installing Chez Scheme and/or Petite Chez Scheme, first read
  through scheme.lic and/or petite.lic.

  Install the base executable scheme.exe and the heap files
  petite.heap and scheme.heap in their proper location (typically
  /usr/local/lib/csvX.Y/M, where X.Y is this version of Chez Scheme and
  M is the machine type).  The base executable should be given group and
  other execute but not read or write access, and the heap file should
  be given group and other read but not write or execute access.

  Edit the executable scripts petite and scheme to reflect the
  pathnames of the base executable and heap files.  Install the
  executable scripts in their proper location (typically
  /usr/local/bin).  The executable scripts should be given group
  and other execute and read but not write access.

  Install the files from the examples directory (examples) and the file
  include/scheme.h in their proper location on your system (typically
  /usr/local/lib/csvX.Y, where X.Y is this version of Chez Scheme).
  These files should be given group and other read but not write or
  execute access.

  Edit scheme.1 if necessary to reflect the location of the executable
  file and library directory.  Install scheme.1 as the manual page
  (typically /usr/local/man/man1/scheme.1) and symbolically link it
  to petite.1.


CUSTOMIZATION (Unix):

  It is possible to include custom Scheme code and Scheme-callable C
  code in the executable image.  Please refer to the "ReadMe" file in
  the "custom" subdirectory for instructions.


INSTALLATION UNDER WINDOWS NT

  Install the base executable exec.<machine-type> and heap file
  heap.<machine-type> in an appropriate location (typically
  C:\scheme).  The base executable should be given execute but not read
  or write access, and the heap file should be given read but not write
  or execute access.

  Edit the batch file scheme.bat to reflect the pathnames of the base
  executable and heap files.  Install the batch file in an appropriate
  location (possibly in the same location as the base executable and
  heap files).  If the directory containing the batch file is not in
  the default path, add this directory to the default path via the
  system item in the Windows NT control panel.

  Install the files in the examples directory (examples) in an
  appropriate location on your system (typically C:\scheme).  These
  files should be given group and other read but not write or execute
  access.
